>> Woodruff: BATTLE LINES
HARDENED OVER FEDERAL SPENDING
TODAY, A BILL TO FUND THE
GOVERNMENT LOOKS SET TO CLEAR
THE SENATE, BUT HOUSE SPEAKER
JOHN BOEHNER WARNED HIS CHAMBER
MAY BLOCK IT.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD, IRAN AND THE U.S.
HELD THE HIGHEST LEVEL FACE-TO-
FACE MEETINGS IN MORE THAN
30 YEARS, EACH SIDE REACHING OUT
TO BREAK THE DIPLOMATIC ICE.
>> Woodruff: AND IN FILM, IN
JOURNALISM, EVEN ON THE FARM,
THE INTERNS WORK HARD.
PAUL SOLMAN REPORTS ON THE LEGAL
DEBATE OVER WHETHER THEY SHOULD
GET PAID.
>> YOU GET TONS OF NEW
EXPERIENCE AND ON TOP OF THAT
YOU GET TO MAKE NEW CONNECTIONS
AND REALLY BUILD YOUR RESUME.
>> I KNEW THE WORK I WAS DOING
WAS EXACTLY THE SAME WORK THAT I
HAD PREVIOUSLY DONE, EXCEPT THAT
NOW I WAS DOING IT FOR FREE.
IT'S NOT RIGHT, AND YOU CAN DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT IF YOU WANT
TO.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT: NEITHER SIDE GAVE
GROUND IN WASHINGTON'S WAR OVER
PREVENTING A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
NEXT WEEK.
THE SENATE WORKED ON A BILL TO
FUND GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS,
WHILE REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE
KEPT DEMANDING AN END TO FUNDING
FOR PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HEALTH
CARE REFORM LAW.
"NEWSHOUR" CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> I DO NOT SEE THAT HAPPENING.
>> Reporter: SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER IMMEDIATELY QUASHED ANY
NOTION HOUSE REPUBLICANS WOULD
ACCEPT A STOPGAP SPENDING BILL
FROM THE DEMOCRATIC-CONTROLLED
SENATE THAT SIMPLY REMOVES A
PROVISION DE-FUNDING THE HEALTH
CARE LAW.
BOEHNER WOULD NOT LAY OUT
REPUBLICAN DEMANDS, BUT HE DID
INSIST AGAIN THAT THEY WANT TO
KEEP THE GOVERNMENT RUNNING.
>> I'VE MADE IT CLEAR NOW FOR
MONTHS AND MONTHS AND MONTHS
THAT WE HAVE NO INTEREST IN
SEEING A GOVERNMENT SHUT DOWN.
BUT WE'VE GOT TO ADDRESS THE
SPENDING PROBLEMS THAT WE HAVE
IN THIS TOWN.
AND SO THERE WILL BE OPTIONS
AVAILABLE TO US.
>> Reporter: BACK IN THE SENATE,
DEMOCRATIC LEADER HARRY REID
SAID HOUSE REPUBLICANS ARE
UNSURE WHAT TO DO.
>> IF ANYONE HERE THINKS THE
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE HAVE A
WORKABLE PLAN TO AVERT A
SHUTDOWN ON MONDAY, TELL ME
ABOUT IT.
I GET ALL KINDS OF REPORTS FROM
THEM.
"WE'RE GOING TO DO THIS, WE'RE
GOING TO DO THAT."
SO, WE'LL HAVE TO SEE WHAT THEY
DECIDE TO DO BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
THEY DON'T KNOW.
>> Reporter: THE SENATE HEADED
TOWARD A VOTE TOMORROW TO STRIP
OUT THE "DE-FUND OBAMACARE"
PROVISION.
REPUBLICAN MINORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL, URGED DEMOCRATS TO
BREAK WITH THEIR PARTY ON THE
ISSUE.
>> THIS LAW IS A MESS.
IT NEEDS TO GO.
SO I HOPE SOME OF OUR DEMOCRATIC
FRIENDS WILL LOOK THEMSELVES IN
THE MIRROR AND THINK, TRULY
THINK, ABOUT WHETHER PROTECTING
THE PRESIDENT'S PRIDE IS REALLY
MORE IMPORTANT THAN HELPING THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS READIED A SEPARATE
PROPOSAL RAISING THE NATION'S
DEBT LIMIT, BUT THEY ALSO
ATTACHED A ONE-YEAR DELAY OF THE
HEALTH CARE LAW.
PRESIDENT OBAMA DENOUNCED THAT
STRATEGY DURING AN EVENT IN
LARGO, MARYLAND.
>> THE ENTIRE WORLD LOOKS TO US
TO MAKE SURE THAT THE WORLD
ECONOMY IS STABLE.
YOU DON'T MESS WITH THAT.
( PLAUAPSE )
AND THAT'S WHY I WILL NOT
YOU DON'T MESS WITH THAT.
NEGOTIATE ON ANYTHING WHEN IT
AND THAT'S WHY I WILL NOT
COMES TO THE FULL FAITH AND
NEGOTIATE ON ANYTHING WHEN IT
CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
COMES TO THE FULL FAITH AND
AMERICA.
CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
( APPLAUSE )
AMERICA.
>> Reporter: THE IMMEDIATE
( APPLAUSE )
FOCUS, THOUGH, IS
>> Reporter: THE IMMEDIATE
STAVING OFF A GOVERNMENT
FOCUS, THOUGH, IS
SHUTDOWN.
STAVING OFF A GOVERNMENT
THE STOPGAP SPENDING BILL IS
SHUTDOWN.
EXPECTED TO WIN FINAL SENATE
THE STOPGAP SPENDING BILL IS
PASSAGE BY SATURDAY, LEAVING THE
EXPECTED TO WIN FINAL SENATE
NEXT MOVE UP TO THE HOUSE.
PASSAGE BY SATURDAY, LEAVING THE
>> Woodruff: IN ANOTHER
NEXT MOVE UP TO THE HOUSE.
DEVELOPMENT, THE OBAMA
>> Woodruff: IN ANOTHER
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED NEW
DEVELOPMENT, THE OBAMA
DELAYS IN OPENING HEALTH CARE
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED NEW
EXCHANGES TO THE UNINSURED NEXT
DELAYS IN OPENING HEALTH CARE
TUESDAY.
EXCHANGES TO THE UNINSURED NEXT
IT SAID SMALL BUSINESSES AND A
TUESDAY.
LATINO ENROLLMENT SERVICE WILL
IT SAID SMALL BUSINESSES AND A
NOT BE ABLE TO ENROLL ONLINE FOR
LATINO ENROLLMENT SERVICE WILL
SEVERAL WEEKS.
NOT BE ABLE TO ENROLL ONLINE FOR
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE SPENDING
SEVERAL WEEKS.
FIGHT AND ON OBAMACARE LATER,
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE SPENDING
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
FIGHT AND ON OBAMACARE LATER,
DAY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA REACHED
DAY.
AGREEMENT LATE TODAY ON THE
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA REACHED
WORDING OF A U.N. RESOLUTION ON
AGREEMENT LATE TODAY ON THE
DISPOSING OF SYRIA'S CHEMICAL
WORDING OF A U.N. RESOLUTION ON
ARSENAL.
DISPOSING OF SYRIA'S CHEMICAL
THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE
ARSENAL.
UNITED NATIONS, SAMANTHA POWER,
THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE
SAID THE MEASURE WOULD BE
UNITED NATIONS, SAMANTHA POWER,
LEGALLY OBLIGATING ON DAMASCUS
SAID THE MEASURE WOULD BE
TO SURRENDERALL  CHEMICAL
LEGALLY OBLIGATING ON DAMASCUS
WEAPONS.
TO SURRENDERALL  CHEMICAL
THE FULL U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
WEAPONS.
IS MEETING TONIGHT ON THE
THE FULL U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION.
IS MEETING TONIGHT ON THE
ALSO AT THE U.N., THE U.S. AND
RESOLUTION.
THE OTHER PERMANENT MEMBERS OF
ALSO AT THE U.N., THE U.S. AND
THE SECURITY COUNCIL RESUMED
THE OTHER PERMANENT MEMBERS OF
NUCLEAR TALKS WITH IRAN.
THE SECURITY COUNCIL RESUMED
THE SESSION IS AIMED AT SETTING
NUCLEAR TALKS WITH IRAN.
UP A NEW ROUND OF FULL-SCALE
THE SESSION IS AIMED AT SETTING
NEGOTIATIONS, PROBABLY NEXT
UP A NEW ROUND OF FULL-SCALE
MONTH.
NEGOTIATIONS, PROBABLY NEXT
MORE ON THIS, LATER IN THE
MONTH.
PROGRAM.
MORE ON THIS, LATER IN THE
THE DEATH TOLL FROM TUESDAY'S
PROGRAM.
MASSIVE EARTHQUAKE IN
THE DEATH TOLL FROM TUESDAY'S
SOUTHWESTERN PAKISTAN KEPT
MASSIVE EARTHQUAKE IN
RISING TODAY TO 355.
SOUTHWESTERN PAKISTAN KEPT
PEOPLE WERE STILL DIGGING
RISING TODAY TO 355.
THROUGH THE RUBBLE OF FLATTENED
PEOPLE WERE STILL DIGGING
VILLAGES, LOOKING FOR
THROUGH THE RUBBLE OF FLATTENED
BELONGINGS.
VILLAGES, LOOKING FOR
SURVIVORS PLEADED FOR AID AND
BELONGINGS.
MEDICAL ATTENTION, AND MANY
SURVIVORS PLEADED FOR AID AND
COMPLAINED HELP IS NOT GETTING
MEDICAL ATTENTION, AND MANY
TO REMOTE AREAS.
COMPLAINED HELP IS NOT GETTING
>> ( translated ): 48 HOURS HAVE
TO REMOTE AREAS.
PASSED.
>> ( translated ): 48 HOURS HAVE
THE PEOPLE HERE HAVE NOTHING TO
PASSED.
EAT.
THE PEOPLE HERE HAVE NOTHING TO
THEY DON'T HAVE CLEAN DRINKING
EAT.
WATER.
THEY DON'T HAVE CLEAN DRINKING
NO GOVERNMENT TEAMS HAVE REACHED
WATER.
US SO FAR.
NO GOVERNMENT TEAMS HAVE REACHED
>> Woodruff: THE PAKISTANI
US SO FAR.
INTERIOR MINISTER SAID TODAY
>> Woodruff: THE PAKISTANI
SECURITY PROBLEMS ARE MAKING IT
INTERIOR MINISTER SAID TODAY
HARD FOR RESCUERS.
SECURITY PROBLEMS ARE MAKING IT
HOURS LATER, A GOVERNMENT
HARD FOR RESCUERS.
HELICOPTER SURVEYING THE QUAKE
HOURS LATER, A GOVERNMENT
DAMAGE NARROWLY MISSED BEING HIT
HELICOPTER SURVEYING THE QUAKE
BY TWO ROCKETS.
DAMAGE NARROWLY MISSED BEING HIT
THEY WERE FIRED ON BY MILITANTS
BY TWO ROCKETS.
SEEKING INDEPENDENCE FOR
THEY WERE FIRED ON BY MILITANTS
BALUCHISTAN.
SEEKING INDEPENDENCE FOR
IN IRAQ, A NEW ROUND OF BOMBINGS
BALUCHISTAN.
KILLED NEARLY TWO DOZEN PEOPLE
IN IRAQ, A NEW ROUND OF BOMBINGS
AND WOUNDED SCORES MORE.
KILLED NEARLY TWO DOZEN PEOPLE
THE ATTACKS CONTINUED A WAVE OF
AND WOUNDED SCORES MORE.
VIOLENCE THAT'S CLAIMED NEARLY
THE ATTACKS CONTINUED A WAVE OF
6,000 LIVES THIS YEAR.
VIOLENCE THAT'S CLAIMED NEARLY
MOST OF TODAY'S VICTIMDIEDS  AT
6,000 LIVES THIS YEAR.
A MARKETPLACE IN A SHI-ITE
MOST OF TODAY'S VICTIMDIEDS  AT
VILLAGE NORTH OF BAGHDAD.
A MARKETPLACE IN A SHI-ITE
THE SOMALI EXTREMIST GROUP THAT
VILLAGE NORTH OF BAGHDAD.
ATTACKED A SHOPPING MALL IN
THE SOMALI EXTREMIST GROUP THAT
NAIROBI, KENYA, HAS STRUCK
ATTACKED A SHOPPING MALL IN
AGAIN.
NAIROBI, KENYA, HAS STRUCK
AL-SHABAAB FIGHTERS ASSAULTED
AGAIN.
TWO KENYAN TOWNS NEAR THE BORDER
AL-SHABAAB FIGHTERS ASSAULTED
WITH SOMALIA TODAY, KILLINGOPLE.
TWO KENYAN TOWNS NEAR THE BORDER
MEANWHILE, KENYANS HAVE BEGUN
WITH SOMALIA TODAY, KILLINGOPLE.
BURYING THE 67 CONFIRMED DEAD IN
MEANWHILE, KENYANS HAVE BEGUN
THE MALL SIEGE.
BURYING THE 67 CONFIRMED DEAD IN
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM LINDSEY
THE MALL SIEGE.
HILSUM OF "INDEPENDENT
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM LINDSEY
TELEVISION NEWS."
HILSUM OF "INDEPENDENT
>> Reporter: A HINDU FUNERAL FOR
TELEVISION NEWS."
THE MARKETING THE DIRECTOR FOR
>> Reporter: A HINDU FUNERAL FOR
ONE OF KENYA'S BIGGEST
THE MARKETING THE DIRECTOR FOR
COMPANIES.
INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION HAS
TURNED TO THE INVESTIGATION, BUT
MANY HERE ARE STILL DEEP IN
MOURNING.
MR. SHAH HAD THE CHANCE TO
ESCAPE FROM THE TOP FLOOR OF
WEST GATE BUT HE STAYED TO TRY
AND PROTECT CHILDREN THERE.
THIS IS JUST ONE OF 67 FUNERALS
AND WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY MORE
THERE WILL BE BECAUSE AN UNKNOWN
NUMBER OF BODIES ARE STILL LYING
IN THE RUBBLE AT WEST GATE.
PEOPLE IN KENYA ARE GOING
THROUGH GRIEF, BUT ALSO FEAR AND
UNCERTAINTY BECAUSE THE
GOVERNMENT STILL HASN'T ANSWERED
SO MANY OF THEIR QUESTIONS.
THE M.P. FOR THE AREA--
PARALYZED IN A CARJACKING
INCIDENT A FEW YEARS BACK-- IS
ANGRY ABOUT THE INTELLIGENCE
FAILURE THAT LED TO A TERROR
ATTACK IN HIS CONSTITUENCY.
>> THEY ARE NOT UP TO THE JOB
THEN WE MUST GET THEM OUT AND
GET PEOPLE WHO CAN WORK.
BECAUSE IF YOU ARE THERE, YOU
ARE THERE TO PROTECT THEIR LIVES
AND PROPERTY AND YOU'RE NOT
DOING IT.
>> Reporter: THE KENYAN DEFENSE
FORCE RELEASED THESE PICTURES
SHOWING WRECKED CAR WHICH IS
TUMBLED DN FROWOM THE ROOF CAR
PARK WHEN IT COLLAPSED.
WE STILL DON'T KNOW WHY.
TODAY FOREIGN FORENSIC TEAMS
WERE SEEN ON THE SIGHT.
OTHERS, INCLUDING AMERICANS AND
GERMANS ARRIVED AT THE MORTUARY
TO EXAMINE BODIES FOR
PAINSTAKING PROCESS THAT WOULD
TAKE SOME TIME.
>> Woodruff: AL-SHABAAB IS KNOWN
TO HAVE RECRUITED AMONG SOMALIS
LIVING IN THE U.S.
BUT IN WASHINGTON TODAY,
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
PLAYED DOWN THE POTENTIAL FOR A
DOMESTIC ATTACK.
>> I WOULD NOT SAY THAT WE HAVE
ANY SPECIFIC, CREDIBLE EVIDENCE
THAT AL-SHABAAB IS PLANNING TO
DO ANYTHING IN THE UNITED
STATES.
I'M NOT SURE IF THEY HAVE THE
CAPACITY TO DO ANYTHING IN THE
UNITED STATES.
IT DOESN'T MEAN, HOWEVER, THAT
WE'RE NOT TAKING THE THREAT THAT
THEY POSE AS WE ARE TAKING THAT
AS A SERIOUS ONE.
>> Woodruff: HOLDER ALSO SAID
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE THAT
AMERICANS WERE INVOLVED IN
PLANNING THE NAIROBI ATTACK.
THERE WILL BE NO FREEDOM FOR
FORMER LIBERIAN PRESIDENT
CHARLES TAYLOR.
THE ONE-TIME LEADER LOOKED ON
TODAY AS THE INTERNATIONAL
CRIMINAL COURT UPHELD HIS
CONVICTIONS FOR WAR CRIMES AND
CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY.
HE'D BEEN FOUND GUILTY OF AIDING
REBELS IN SIERRA LEONE DURING A
BLOODY CIVIL WAR.
PROSECUTOR BRENDA HOLLIS
WELCOMED THE COURT'S
ANNOUNCEMENT, IN THE
NETHERLANDS.
>> THIS FINAL DECISION AFFIRMS
TAYLOR'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR
GRAVE CRIMES WHICH CAUSED UNTOLF
NOT TENS OF THOUSANDS OF VICTIMS
IN SIERRA LEONE.
TODAY'S JUDGMENT BRINGS SOME
MEASURE OF JUSTICE TO THOSE
VICTIMS WHO SUFFERED SO HORRIBLY
BECAUSE OF CHARLES TAYLOR.
>> Woodruff: TAYLOR'S CONVICTION
CARRIES A 50-YEAR PRISON
SENTENCE.
A FORMER MONTANA HIGH SCHOOL
TEACHER WAS RELEASED FROM PRISON
TODAY, AFTER SERVING JUST
30 DAYS FOR RAPING A STUDENT.
STACEY RAMBOLD WAS CONVICTED OF
ASSAULTING A 14-YEAR-OLD GIRL,
WHO LATER COMMITTED SUICIDE.
A STATE JUDGE SENTENCED HIM IN
AUGUST, AND APPEARED TO SUGGEST
THE GIRL WAS PARTLY TO BLAME FOR
THE RAPE.
PROSECUTORS ARE APPEALING FOR A
LONGER SENTENCE.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, FIRST-TIME
JOBLESS CLAIMS FELL LAST WEEK,
COMING CLOSE TO THEIR LOWEST
LEVELS IN SIX YEARS.
THAT GAVE A BOOST TO WALL
STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 55 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,328.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 26 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,787.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": HOW DEALS
ACTUALLY GET DONE ON CAPITAL
HILL; READING THE NEW PUSH FOR
DIPLOMACY BETWEEN THE U.S. AND
IRAN; THE LEGAL BATTLES OVER THE
VALUE OF INTERNS; WHAT HEALTH
CARE REFORM MEANS FOR MEDIRE;CA
AN EXECUTION IN CHINA THAT'S
SPARKED OUTRAGE ONLINE AND WILD
TALES FROM GRAHAM NASH'S LIFE IN
ROCK N' ROLL.
>> Ifill: AS KWAME REPORTED,
HIGH NOON APPEARS TO BE
APPROACHING IN CONGRESS.
BUT WHAT'S THE FIGHT REALLY
ABOUT?
HEALTH CARE?
FUNDING GOVERNMENT?
PAYING OUR DEBTS?
AND WHO HAS THE UPPER HAND?
FOR A LOOK AT WHAT'S PLAYING OUT
BEHIND THE SCENES, WE TURN TO
TWO CAPITOL VETERANS WHO'VE
SPENT THEIR FAIR SHARE OF TIME
IN THE BACKROOMS WHERE THE DEALS
ARE MADE.
RON BONJEAN, WHO WORKED AS
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR FOR
FORMER HOUSE SPEAKER
DENNIS HASTERT AND CHIEF OF
STAFF FOR THE SENATE REPUBLICAN
CONFERENCE.
AND JIM MANLEY, WHO WAS A TOP
ADVISOR TO SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID AND PRESS
SECRETARY FOR THE LATE SENATOR
TED KENNEDY.
YOU GUYS HAVE BEEN IN THE
BATTLES BEFORE, YOU'RE HAPPILY
ON THE SIDELINES NOW BUT AS YOU
WATCH THE TWO DEBATEDS, RON
BONJEAN, APPROACHING, THE
GOVERNMENT, THE DEBT LIMIT NEXT
MONTH, FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT,
WHICH IS POTENTIALLY MORE
DAMAGING FOR WHICH PARTY?
>> RIGHT NOW I THINK SHUTTING
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT WOULD BE
MUCH MORE DAMAGING FOR THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
BUT LET ME SAY THIS: REPUBLICANS
WANT TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE
PRESIDENT OVER AVOIDING ALL OF
THIS.
THEY WANT TO TALK ABOUT REDUCING
SPENDING, THEY WANT TO TALK
ABOUT DELAYING OBAMACARE AND THE
PRESIDENT IS SAYING HE WON'T
NEGOTIATE AND TO REPUBLICANS
THAT IS VERY SURPRISING CONSIDER
THAT THE PRESIDENT IS THE SAYING
HE WILL NEGOTIATE WITH SYRIA,
WILL NEGOTIATE WPL VLADIMIR
PUTIN AND HIS SECRETARY OF STATE
WILL BE TALKING TO IRAN.
AND WHY ISN'T HE PICKING UP THE
PHONE AND CALLING JOHN BOEHNER.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK JIM MANLEY
THAT QUESTION.
WE HEARD THE PRESIDENT SAYING
HE'S NOT GOING TO NEGOTIATE
ABOUT THE FULL FAITH AND CREDIT
OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND JOHN
BOEHNER SAID IT DOESN'T WORK
THAT WAY.
>> WELL, HE'S ABOUT TO FIND OUT
THAT THINGS HAVE CHANGED.
THE PRESIDENT LEARNED A VALUABLE
LESSON AFTER HIS NEGOTIATIONS IN
2011 WITH SPEAKER BOEHNER OVER
THE SO-CALLED DEBT LIMIT THEN.
HE LEARNED THAT YOU CAN'T
NEGOTIATE WITH HOSTAGE TAKERS
AND THAT PROBABLY MORE
IMPORTANTLY THAT SPEAKER BOEHNER
DOESN'T HAVE THE ABILITY TO MOVE
HIS CAUCUS.
WHAT THEY ARE TRYING TO DO RIGHT
NOW IS ATTACH EVERYTHING TO THE
KITCHEN SINK AND SEE WHAT
STICKS.
TO YOUR QUESTION EARLIER, I
THINK THAT THE DEBT LIMIT IS
CLEARLY THE MOST CATACLYSMIC FOR
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
AGAIN, CALLING INTO QUESTION THE
FULL FAITH AND CREDIT OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT,
RAISING THE SPECTER OF THE
ECONOMY TANKING, 401(K)s GOING
DOWN AS WELL.
VERY, VERY
>> Ifill: PART OF WHAT WE'VE
SEEN PLAY OUT ON THE CAPITOL
HILL IS TRYING TO PRIORITIES
THOSE TWO FIGHTS.
WHAT IS THE CURRENT STRATEGY FOR
THE REPUBLICANS?
>> THEY'RE DEVELOPING THE
"COURANT" STRATEGY.
AS OF RIGHT NOW THE C.R. IS
PRIMARY.
>> Ifill: THE C.R.?
>> CONTINUING RESOLUTION,
FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT IS COMING
FIRST LIKELY BECAUSE WE BELIEVE
THAT THE SENATE WILL VOTE ON
THIS AND SEND IT OVER TO THE
HOUSE WHERE THEY'LL HAVE TO
CONSIDER WHAT TO DO NEXT.
THE DEBT CEILING FIGHT WILL COME
AFTER THAT BECAUSE TREASURY
SECRETARY JACK LEW SAID THAT THE
GOVERNMENT TREASURY WILL DEFAULT
ON OCTOBER 17.
SO AT THIS POINT WE -- THE TWO
ARE DELINKED.
WE'LL SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
THEY COULD BE JOINED TOGETHER IF
THE CONTINUING RESOLUTION IS PUT
FORWARD CLOSER TO THE DEBT
CEILING.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
TIES THESE TWO ISSUES
TOGETHERING IS THIS FIGHT OVER
HEALTH CARE.
IS THIS -- THE FIGHT HAS BEEN SO
FAR IN THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE
ABOUT WHETHER TO LINK DEFUNDING
THE AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE ACT
FROM THESE TWO ISSUES.
IS THERE REALLY A CONNECTION?
>> I RESPECTFULLY SUGGEST NOT.
AND I SAY THAT IN PART BECAUSE I
SPENT A LOT OF TIME WORKING TO
PUT TOGETHERING THAT BILL WHEN I
WORKED IN THE SENATE.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS IS
THAT THE ONLY REASON THEY ARE
TRYING TO DO THIS IS THEY'RE
TRYING TO HURT -- GO RIGHT AT
ONE OF THE KEY ACCOMPLISHMENTS
OF THIS PRESIDENT'S AGENDA.
THEY REFUSE TO ACCEPT THE
RESULTS OF THE 2008 AND 2012
ELECTIONS WHERE PRESIDENT OBAMA
WON AND THEY ARE DOING
EVERYTHING THEY CAN TO MUDDY THE
WATERS AS THEY MOVE TOWARD THE
OCTOBER 1 DEADLINE.
>> Ifill: WHOSE HOT POTATO IS
THIS REALLY, RON?
>> THIS IS GOING TO BE PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S HOT POTATO PRETTY SOON
BECAUSE THE REPUBLICANS ARE
LIKELY GOING TO HAVE A DELAY OF
OBAMACARE EITHER ON THE
CONTINUING RESOLUTION OR AS PART
OF THIS DEBT CEILING PACKAGE AND
YOU KNOW, THE OBAMACARE -- THE
OBAMACARE LAW ITSELF IS ALREADY
BECOMING DELAYED.
WE MAY NOT HAVE TO DELAY IT AT
ALL.
I MEAN, TODAY WE HAD SMALL
BUSINESS EXCHANGES, IT WAS
ANNOUNCED THEY'RE GOING TO BE
DELAYED.
YESTERDAY IT WAS THE D.C.
EXCHANGES THAT ARE GOING TO BE
DELAYED.
SO I REALLY THINK THAT THIS IS
GOING TO BE IN PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
COURT SOON.
YOU CAN'T SAY YOU WON'T
NEGOTIATE WITH THE REPUBLICAN
HOUSE.
YOU CAN UNTIL A DEAL NEEDS TO BE
REACHED.
WE'RE ON PRECIPICE OF DEFAULTING
ON OUR DEBT AND THE REPUBLICANS
ARE WILLING TO NEGOTIATE.
THE PRESIDENT IS IN CHARGE OF
THE COUNTRY.
AMERICANS WILL BE VERY UPSET IF
WE WENT OVER THAT CLIFF.
>> Ifill: JIM?
>> THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T HAVE
ANYONE TO NEGOTIATE WITH RIGHT
NOW.
SPEAKER BOEHNER IS INCAPABLE OF
CONTROLLING HIS CAUSE OF ACTION
AND SENATOR McCONNELL, THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER OF THE SENATE,
IS SO AFRAID OF FACING A TEA
PARTY CHALLENGE THAT HE'S ALL
BUT M.I.A. FROM THE SENATE RIGHT
NOW.
AND, AGAIN, THE PRESIDENT HAS
SAID BOTH PRIVATELY AND PUBLICLY
THAT HE'S NOT GOING TO NEGOTIATE
WITH HOSTAGE-TAKERS SO THE
SOONER THE HOUSE REPUBLICANS
FIGURE THAT OUT AND GET THEIR
ACT TOGETHER, THE BETTER COUNTRY
GOING TO BE.
>> Ifill: IS THIS FIGHT AMONG
REPUBLICANS-- WE SAW A MINOR
SPECTACLE ON THE SENATE FLOOR
TODAY BETWEEN TWO REPUBLICANS
FIGHTING ABOUT WHEN THIS VOTE
SHOULD HAPPEN-- DOESN'T SEEM
LIKE THE DEMOCRATS ARE PART OF
THIS FIGHT AT ALL SOMETIMES.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
RIGHT NOW YOU SEE A SIDE FIGHT
GOING ON ABOUT HOW THEY SHOULD
PROCEED AND BEHIND THE SCENES
BUT THE FIGHT IS OVER OBAMACARE.
IT'S OVER NOW MOST LIKELY
DELAYING IT.
AND REPUBLICANS ARE ON THE SIDE
OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
THE MAJORITY OF AMERICANS DON'T
LIKE OBAMACARE.
THEY'RE VERY CONFUSED BY IT AND
IT'S SCARING A LOT OF PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO YOU SAY TO
THAT?
>> WELL, AGAIN, THE FACT OF THE
MATTER IS THAT WHAT WE'VE SEEN
IN THE LAST WEEK IS NOTHING BUT
A WASTE OF TIME.
NOTHING THEY CAN DO
LEGISLATIVELY CAN UNDERMINE
OBAMACARE.
IT'S GOING TO GO INTO EFFECT ON
OCTOBER 1 AND ANY THREAT TO
CAUSE THE GOVERNMENT TO DEFAULT
ON THE DEBT IN MID-OCTOBER IS
DESTINED TO FAIL AND THEY'RE
GOING TO PLAY A TERRIBLE
POLITICAL PRICE.
>> Ifill: IS THE GOVERNMENT
GOING TO SHUT DOWN?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
I THINK BOTH PARTIES WILL FIND
CONSENSUS ON THIS.
PRESIDENT --
>> Ifill: HOW CAN THERE BE
CONSENSUS IF THERE'S NO
NEGOTIATIONING?
>> I THINK THAT'S RIGHT FOR NOW.
BUT AS THEY GET CLOSER AND
CLOSER TO THE SHUTDOWN I THINK
WE ARE NOT GOING TO SHUT DOWN.
I HAVE A LOT OF CONFIDENCE WE'RE
NOT GOING TO SHUT DOWN.
I DON'T FEEL A CRYSTAL BALL AND
CAN TELL YOU THAT BUT SPEAKER
BOEHNER SAID NO, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
HE DOES NOT WANT TO SHUT THIS
DOWN.
HE WANTS TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE
DEMOCRATS.
PRESIDENT.
HE WANTS TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE
BUT THE PRESIDENT KEEPS DRAWING
PRESIDENT.
A RED LINE.
BUT THE PRESIDENT KEEPS DRAWING
>> Ifill: JIM, WHAT IS YOUR GUT?
A RED LINE.
>> MY GUT TELLS ME SOMEHOW-- I
>> Ifill: JIM, WHAT IS YOUR GUT?
HAVE NO IDEA HOW-- THEY'LL FIND
>> MY GUT TELLS ME SOMEHOW-- I
A A WAY TO AVOID A GOVERNMENT
HAVE NO IDEA HOW-- THEY'LL FIND
SHUTDOWN.
A A WAY TO AVOID A GOVERNMENT
HAVING SAID THAT, THERE ARE
SHUTDOWN.
PUBLISHED REPORTS THAT THE HOUSE
HAVING SAID THAT, THERE ARE
REPUBLICANS DON'T JET THE VOTES
PUBLISHED REPORTS THAT THE HOUSE
TO PASS THE DEBT LIMIT PLAN THEY
REPUBLICANS DON'T JET THE VOTES
WANTED TO PASS IN THE NEXT
TO PASS THE DEBT LIMIT PLAN THEY
COUPLE DAYS.
WANTED TO PASS IN THE NEXT
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS IT'S
COUPLE DAYS.
GOING TO TAKE SOME TIME FOR THEM
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS IT'S
TO SORT IT ALL OUT.
GOING TO TAKE SOME TIME FOR THEM
WE'LL MAYBE HAVE A ONE WEEK C.R.
TO SORT IT ALL OUT.
WHILE REPUBLICANS TRY TO GET
WE'LL MAYBE HAVE A ONE WEEK C.R.
THEIR ACT TOGETHER INTERNALLY.
WHILE REPUBLICANS TRY TO GET
>> Ifill: BUY SOME TIME?
THEIR ACT TOGETHER INTERNALLY.
>> BUY SOME TIME.
>> Ifill: BUY SOME TIME?
THE.
>> BUY SOME TIME.
>> Ifill: RON BONJEAN, JIM
THE.
MANLEY.
>> Ifill: RON BONJEAN, JIM
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN MORE THAN 30 YEARS, THE MOST
SENIOR DIPLOMATS OF THE UNITED
STATES AND IRAN ARE TALKING FACE
TO FACE.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
AND FOREIGN MINISTER MOHAMMAD
JAVAD ZARIF, PLUS OTHER FOREIGN
MINISTERS
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND
INTERNATIONAL SANCTIONS AGAINST
THE COUNTRY.
IRAN'S PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI
SAYS HE WANTS TO REACH AN
AGREEMENT IN THREE TO SIX
MONTHS.
AND THIS MORNING AT THE U.N., HE
CALLED ON ISRAEL TO JOIN THE
NUCLEAR NON-PROLIFERATION TREATY
AND ON ALL NATIONS TO ABANDON
NUCLEAR ARMS.
>> ( translated ): A PEACEFUL
AND SECURE WORLD REMAINS A
SHARED IDEAL FOR US ALL.
THE HORRORS OF HIROSHIMA AND
NAGASAKI DEEPENED OUR RESOLVE TO
PREVENT THE OCCURRENCE OF SUCH
UNSPEAKABLE DEATH AND
DESTRUCTION.
NO NATION SHOULD POSSESS NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
SINCE THERE ARE NO RIGHT HANDS
FOR THESE WRONG WEAPONS, THE
ONLY ABSOLUTE GUARANTEE IS THEIR
TOTAL ELIMINATION.
>> Woodruff: GIVEN THE OUTREACH,
HOW SHOULD THE U.S. PROCEED?
WE GET THREE VIEWS.
SUZANNE MALONEY STUDIES IRAN AND
THE MIDDLE EAST AT THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION.
FLYNT LEVERETT IS A PROFESSOR OF
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AT PENN
STATE UNIVERSITY.
AND REUEL MARC GERECHT IS A
SENIOR FELLOW WITH THE
FOUNDATION FOR DEFENSE OF
DEMOCRACIES.
WELCOME TO THE NEWSHOUR ALL
THREE.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE HERE TO TALK
ABOUT IRAN, BUT LET ME FIRST
BEGIN THE NEWS THAT THERE MAY BE
A DEAL THAT'S BEEN REACHED
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND
RUSSIA OVER GETTING SYRIA TO
GIVE UP CONTROL OF ITS CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
REUEL GARECHT, IF THAT'S
HAPPENED, DOES THAT HAVE AN
EFFECT ON THE IRAN TALKS?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
I MEAN, I DON'T THINK IT'S
LIKELY THAT ANY DEAL IS REAL IN
SYRIA UNLESS THERE IS AN
ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM THAT, BY
DEFINITION, DOESN'T EXIST.
THE RUSSIANS WOULDN'T ALLOW IT.
SO I THINK THE ONGOING THEATER
IN SYRIA WILL HAVE RELATIVELY
LITTLE AFFECT ON THE NUCLEAR
QUESTION IN IRAN.
>> Woodruff: SUZANNE MALONEY,
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> I THINK IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
BE SKEPTICAL OUTAB THE
SHORT-TERM PROSPECTS OF ANY
BREAK THROUGH ON SYRIA BUT I
THINK WE'RE SEEING A BETTER
COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED
STATES AND RUSSIA WHICH CAN
CARRY OVER IN A CONSTRUCTIVE
FASHION TO THE IRAN TALKS.
>> Woodruff: FLYNT LEVERETT,
WHAT ABOUT YOU?
>> I THINK THE REASON WE HAVE
THIS DEAL DTS WE COULD HAVE HAD
IT TWO WEEKS AGO-- BUT THE
UNITED STATES KEPT INSISTING IN
A VERY UNREALISTIC WAY THAT
RESOLUTION INCLUDE REFERENCE TO
CHAPTER 7 AND THE POINT OF
AUTOMATIC AUTHORIZATION FOR THE
USE OF FORCE IF AT SOME POINT
THE UNITED STATES FEELS LIKE
SYRIA ISN'T COMPLYING.
RUSSIA WASN'T GOING TO AGREE
THAT, CHINA WASN'T GOING AGREE
TO THAT AND, YOU KNOW, IT WAS
REALLY THE UNITED STATES IN THE
POSITION WHERE YOU HAD AN OFFER
ON THE TABLE FOR SYRIA TO GET
RID OF ITS CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
THE UNITED STATES, BECAUSE OF
THIS VERY HEGEMONIC POSITION
THAT IT TOOK DEMANDING
AUTHORIZATION FOR THE U.S. OF
FORCE WAS IN A POSITION
BASICALLY OF PUTTING THAT DEAL
AT RISK.
>> Ifill: SO YOU'RE SAYING ONCE
THAT WAS REMOVED --
>> THE DEAL WAS AT HAND.
>> Woodruff: SO THAT'S HAPPENING
AS U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL IS
MEETING ON THAT THIS EVENING BUT
WE'RE ALSO HERE PRIMARILY TO
TALK ABOUT IRAN BECAUSE YOU HAD,
SUZANNE MALONEY, THIS
UNPRECEDENTED MEETING AT THE
U.N. TODAY BETWEEN JOHN KERRY,
THE SECRETARY OF STATE, THE
IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER.
HOW SERIOUS DO YOU BELIEVE THE
IRANIANS ARE ABOUT WANTING A
DEAL ON NUCLEAR -- THEIR NUCLEAR
ARSENAL?
>> I THINK, IN FACT, THEY ARE
QUITE SERIOUS.
PERHAPS MORE SERIOUSS THAN
THEY'VE EVER BEEN AT ANYIIN THE.
NOT SIMPLY ABOUT TRYING TO GET
TO MORE PROGRESS ON THE NUCLEAR
ISSUE BUT, IN FACT, POTENTIALLY
EXPLORING A BROADER BREAKTHROUGH
WITH THE UNITED STATES.
WE ARE SEEING, REALLY, WHAT HAS
COME TO FRUITION THROUGH THE
ELECTION OF HASSAN ROUHANI
SOMEONE WHO'S A MODERATE
INTENDED TO UNITE THE GOVERNMENT
BUT REALLY TO FIX A PROBLEM.
FIX THIS STANDOFF WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT HAS
RESULTED IN TREMENDOUSLY SEVERE
SANCTIONS AND WIDESPREAD
DIFFICULTIES FOR THE IRANIAN
ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: REUEL GARECHT, HOW
DO YOU LOOK UPON THIS IN TERMS
OF THE IRANIAN POINT OF VIEW?
>> WELL, I THINK THE IRANIAN
REGIME IS CERTAINLY DEDICATED TO
REDUCING SANCTIONS PRESSURE.
I DON'T THINK THAT HASSAN RUE
MANNY-- WHO WAS THERE FROM THE
BEGINNING ON THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR
WEAPONS PROGRAM-- HAS ANY
INTENTION WHAT IS OVER OF SEEING
THAT PROGRAM, WHICH HAS BEEN AT
THE CORE OF THE IRANIAN MILITARY
STRATEGY FOR 20 YEARS-- TO GIVE
IT UP.
I DON'T THINK KAMMNY HAS ANY
INTENTION TO GIVE IT UP AND I
DON'T THINK THE REVOLUTIONARY
GUARD CORPS THAT OVERSEAS THE
PROGRAM HAS AN INTENTION TO GIVE
IT UP.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS IS A
PRETENSE?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S A
PRETENSE.
I THINK THEY WANT TO EXPLORE THE
POSSIBILITIES FOR MAKING LIMITED
CONCESSIONS AND SEE WHAT TYPE OF
ECONOMIC RELIEF THEY CAN GET.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
DIFFICULT FOR THE IRANIANS TO
MAKE SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTIONS IN
THEIR NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
I THINK THEY'RE PROBABLY,
CONTRARY TO WHAT PRESIDENT
ROUHANI SAID, HE WANTS TO SETTLE
THIS IN THREE TO SIX MONTHS.
I CAN SEE THIS DRAGGING ON FOR
QUITE SOME TIME AND I CAN SEE
THE IRANIANS BEING CONTENT WITH
THAT IF THEY CAN FIGURE OUT SOME
MEANS TO SPLIT THE AMERICANS
FROM THE EUROPEANS AND GET
SANCTIONS REMOVED.
>> Woodruff: LEVERETT, HOW DO
YOU READ THE IRANIANS?
>> I THINK THE IRANIANS ARE VERY
SERIOUS ABOUT DOING A NUCLEAR
DEAL ALONG THE LINES THAT
PRESIDENT ROUHANI HAS BEEN
OUTLINING.
WESTERN U.S. ESPECIALLY
ACCEPTANCE OF IRAN'S RIGHT TO
ENRICH URANIUM UNDER
INTERNATIONAL SAFEGUARDS IN
EXCHANGE FOR GREATER
TRANSPARENCY ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR
ACTIVITY.
BUT IRAN HAS BEEN SERIOUS ABOUT
DOING A DEAL ON THAT BASIS FOR
YEARS.
AYATOLLAH KHAMENEI, THE SUPREME
LEADER, HAS TALKED ABOUT THIS
BEING THE ESSENTIAL FORMULA FOR
A DEAL WELL BEFORE DR. ROUHANI
WAS ELECTED PRESIDENT.
THE ISSUE IS WHETHER THE UNITED
STATES, WHETHER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, IS PREPARED TO
DO A DEAL ON THE BASIS OF THE
NON-PROLIFERATION TREATY,
RECOGNIZE IRAN'S RIGHT TO ENRICH
AND THEN TALK ABOUT THE
CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH THAT
HAPPENED.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN MALONEY, HE'S
SAYING THE QUESTION IS REALLY
MORE WITH THE AMERICANS THAN THE
IRANIANS.
>> I THINK THAT'S AN UNFAIR
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S POLICY.
THIS WAS AN ADMINISTRATION THAT
WAS PREPARED TO DO A SMALL
CONFIDENCE-BUILDING MOVE WITH
THE IRANIANS IN 2009 SHORTLY
AFTER THE BRUTAL REPRESSION OF
THE IRANIAN PEOPLE IN THE
CONTESTED REELECTION OF MAHMOUD
AHMADINEJAD.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
SOUGHT PERSISTENTLY TO GET A
DEAL WITH THE IRANIANS.
THE DIFFICULTY --
>> AND IF THEY ACCEPTED THAT
DEAL IN 2010 --
>> THEY ACCEPTED NOTHING OF THE
KIND.
THEY ACCEPTED TERMS VERY
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAD PROPOSED.
>> IT WAS THE AMOUNT OF -- THEY
WERE GOING TO DO EXACTLY WHAT
OBAMA HAD SPELLED OUT IN HIS
LETTERS TO THE BRAZILIAN AND
TURKISH LEADERS BEFORE THEY WENT
TO TEHRAN.
IRAN TOOK THAT DEAL AND THEN THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION COULDN'T
TAKE YES FOR AN ANSWER.
>> Woodruff: FINISH YOUR POINT.
>> I THINK THE DISTINCTION NOW
THAT WE HAVE THE MOST SERIOUS
SET OF NEGOTIATORS FROM THE
IRANIAN SIDE AND THAT WE HAVE
REAL PRESSURE, REAL INCENTIVE,
FROM THEIR SIDE TO DO A DEAL.
I TEND TO BE MORE OPTIMISTIC
THAN REUEL HERE IN TERMS OF THE
TIMELINE.
THE IRANIANS WANT A DEAL AND
THEY WANT SOMETHING VERY
QUICKLY.
THEY'VE MADE THAT VERY CLEAR.
>> Woodruff: MAINLY BECAUSE OF
THE SANCTIONS?
>> AND BECAUSE PRESIDENT ROUHANI
WAS ELECTED ON THE PROMISE OF
IMPROVING THE ECONOMY AND IRAN'S
STATUS IN THE WORLD.
HE NEEDS TO DELIVER.
>> Woodruff: RULE GARECHT, --
REUEL GARECHT, WHY ISN'T THAT
SOMETHING THAT'S PLAUSIBLE?
>> I THINK BECAUSE THE NUCLEAR
PROGRAM, THE NUCLEAR WEAPONS
PROGRAM HAS BEEN AT THE VERY
CENTER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY
MISSION SINCE THE LATE 1980s.
THAT EVERYONE IN THE IRANIAN
ELITE HAS AGREED TO THE NEED FOR
THAT PROGRAM.
I THINK YOU HAVE BROAD CONSENSUS
ON THAT ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: AND THE SANCTIONS
HAVE NOT HAD AN EFFECT?
>> I THINK SANCTIONS HAVE HAD AN
EFFECT, BUT I JUST MENTION
SOMETHING ABOUT RECOGNIZING THIS
SUPPOSED RIGHT TO ENRICHMENT
THAT THE IRANIANS KEEP TALKING
ABOUT.
IF YOU RECOGNIZE 3.5%
ENRICHMENT-- WHICH IS WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HERE-- IF THERE IS
NOT A DRASTIC CURTAILMENT OF THE
PRODUCTION OF CENTRIFUGES, MATH
WILL WORK AGAINST YOU.
EVENTUALLY THIS IRANIANS WILL
HAVE THE CAPACITY TO DO A VERY
RAPID BREAKOUT CAPACITY TO
WEAPONS-GRADE ENRICHMENT AND
THERE WILL BE NOTHING YOU CAN DO
ABOUT IT.
>> Woodruff: LET ME COME BACK TO
YOU, FLYNT LEVERETT, ON THE
POINT REUEL GARECHT HAS MADE IN
SEVERAL ANSWERS, THAT THIS IS
JUST PART AND PARCEL OF WHAT
THIS IRANIAN REGIME IS ALL ABOUT
AND THAT IS THAT THEY WILL HAVE
A NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> A NUCLEAR PROGRAM IS PART AND
PARCEL OF WHAT THEY'RE ABOUT BUT
IT'S NOT A NUCLEAR PROGRAM THAT
IS DESIGNED TO GIVE THEM A
FABBRI FATED WEAPON.
THEY'VE MADE VERY, VERY CLEAR AT
THE HIGHEST LEVELS THAT THEY DO
NOT WANT THIS.
THIS IS A POLITICAL ORDER BORN
OUT OF THE REVOLUTION, ONE OF
GIVE IRAN AN INDEPENDENT
POSITION VIS-A-VIS WESTERN
POWERS, ESPECIALLY UNITED STATES
AFTER IRAN HAD BEEN RULED BY
ESSENTIALLY AN AMERICAN PUPPET
FOR DECADES.
THE PROMISE OF THIS REVOLUTION
WAS WE WILL NOT BE PUPPETS
AGAIN.
HAVING A NUCLEAR PROGRAM THAT
CONSTRAIN PARTICULARLY SENSITIVE
DIMENSIONS OF THE PROGRAM SUCH
AS IRAQ HEAVY WATER PLANT DO TO
COME ONLINE NEXT YEAR.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW THE TALKS
ARE SUPPOSED TO CONTINUE IN
GOVERN.
SUSAN MALONEY, REUEL GARECHT,
FLYNT LEVERETT, WE THANK YOU ALL
THREE.
>> Ifill: NOW, THE VALUE OF
WORK, UNPAID INTERNSHIPS ARE
MORE COMMON THAN EVER, BUT ARE
THEY LEGAL?
"NEWSHOUR" ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN HAS
THE STORY, PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> Reporter: IMAGINE YOU'RE A
COLLEGE STUDENT WHO WANTS TO BE
IN ENTERTAINMENT, AND YOU LAND
AN INTERNSHIP AT "SATURDAY NIGHT
LIVE."
>> IT SEEMED LIKE A DREAM COME
TRUE, I WAS REALLY EXCITED.
>> Reporter: OR YOU GREW UP IN A
PBS-LOVING HOUSE, AND YOU GET TO
INTERN FOR THE "CHARLIE ROSE"
OW.
>> IT WAS A REALLY EXCITING
TIME.
I GOT TO MEET ALL OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.
>> Reporter: OR YOU'VE BEEN
WORKING A HUMDRUM JOB IN
FINANCIAL SERVICES, ARE LOOKING
TO CHANGE CAREERS, AND YOU'RE
OFFERED AN INTERNSHIP ON A MAJOR
HOLLYWOOD FEATURE.
>> I THOUGHT, "WELL, THIS IS ONE
OF THOSE KIND OF BREAKS THAT MAY
LEAD TO OTHER BIG THINGS."
>> Reporter: ACTUALLY, IN ALL
THREE CASES, IT LED TO OTHER
THINGS, ALL RIGHT-- OTHER UNPAID
INTERNSHIPS.
MONET ELIASTAM WORKED 25 HOS AUR
WEEK HER WHOLE JUNIOR YEAR AT
BARNARD FOR "SATURDAY NIGHT
LIVE'S" FILM UNIT.
>> Reporter: WHAT WAS THE
FAVORITE COMMERCIAL PARODY THAT
YOU WORKED ON, OR YOUR FAVORITE?
>> PROBABLY DISNEY HOUSEWIVES.
>> Reporter: A TAKEOFF ON
BRAVO'S "REAL HOUSEWIVES"
FRANCHISE.
>> I'D ACTUALLY WORKED BEFORE AS
A PAID P.A. ON COMMERCIAL SHOOTS
AND SO I KNEW THAT THE WORK I
WAS DOING WAS EXACTLY THE SAME
WORK THAT I HAD PREVIOUSLY DONE,
EXCEPT THAT NOW I WAS DOING IT
FOR FREE.
>> Reporter: LEGALLY, UNPAID
INTERNS CAN'T DISPLACE REGULAR
PAID WORKERS, DOING REAL WORK
FOR NO PAY.
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE LEARNING.
AND THE EMPLOYER CAN'T DERIVE
IMMEDIATE BENEFIT FROM THE
INTERNS ACTIVITIES.
>> THE FINANCIAL STRESS WAS
REALLY DIFFICULT.
>> Reporter: WORKING ON THE
"CHARLIE ROSE" SHOW, THE SUMMER
BEFORE SENIOR YEAR AT WESLEYAN,
WAS LUCY BICKERTON'S THIRD
UNPAID INTERNSHIP.
>> IN SOME WAYS I WAS SORT OF
THE BEST CASE SCENARIO OF AN
UNPAID INTERNSHIP-- I ACTUALLY
GOT A PAID OPPORTUNITY OUT OF
IT, YOU KNOW, A YEAR LATER,
AFTER I GRADUATED.
BUT THEN GOING ON TO GET PAID
FOR THAT SAME WORK, I REALIZED,
"WHY WASN'T I GETTING PAID FOR
THIS BEFORE?"
>> Reporter: HOW MANY HOURS A
DAY WERE YOU WORKING?
>> OH, NORMAL FULL-TIME JOB.
EIGHT, TEN HOURS, DEPENDING ON
THE DAY, 12.
>> Reporter: ERIC GLATT WAS 40
YEARS OLD, HAD AN M.B.A. AND
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE, WHEN UNABLE
TO FIND ANY PAYING JOBS IN FILM,
HE TOOK AN INTERNSHIP ON FOX
SEARCHLIGHT'S "BLACK SWAN."
THE 2010 FILM WENT ON TO EARN
$300 MLIOILN.
GLATT EARNED NOTHING FOR
HUNDREDS OF HOURS OF WORK AS AN
ACCOUNTING CLERK.
>> HELP MANAGE THE WORKFLOW AND
THE PAPERWORK, AND PERSONNEL
FILES AND RECEIPTS AND PETTY
CASH, AND PURCHASE ORDERS.
>> INTERNSHIPS HAVE BECOME
PERVASIVE IN OUR SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: ROSS PERLIN IS THE
AUTHOR OF "INTERN NATION," AN
EXPOSE OF A SYSTEM THAT'S COME A
LONG WAY SINCE THE WORD INTERN
WAS FIRST APPLIED TO NEWLY
MINTED M.D.s.
>> WHAT STARTED OUT AS A GOOD
IDEA-- THE IDEA THAT WE NEED TO
SOMEHOW BRIDGE THE GAP BETWEEN
SCHOOL AND WORK-- THAT GOOD IDEA
HAS KIND OF GONE SOUR IN A LOT
OF WAYS AND INTERNS HAVE BEEN
USED AS A SORT OF CHEAP LABOR
FORCE.
AND IT'S BECOME EXACERBATED;
REALLY, SINCE 2008, WHERE
INTERNSHIPS HAVE BEEN COUPLED
WITRISIH NG TUITION, RECORD
LEVELS OF STUDENT DEBT, HIGH
LEVELS OF YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT AND
THEY'VE BECOME A STRAW THAT KIND
OF BREAKS THE CAMELS BACK FOR
MANY PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: FOR ERIC GLATT THE
EPIPHANY WAS A "NEW YORK TIMES"
ARTICLE: "THE UNPAID INTERN:
LEGAL OR NOT?"
>> I THINK I MAY ACTUALLY HAVE
BEEN SITTING AT MY DESK AT WORK
AND I SAW THIS AND IT WAS ONE OF
THOSE THING WHERE I WAS LIKE, "I
KNEW IT!
I KNEW THERE WAS SOMETHING
ILLEGITIMATE ABOUT THIS."
AND IT'S NOT JUST AN ETHICAL
QUESTION, IT'S A LEGAL QUESTION.
>> Reporter: GLATT FOUND A
LAWYER AND TOOK ACTION.
BICKERTON HEARD ABOUT IT AND
FOLLOWED SUIT.
>> I HAD NO QUALMS ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: BUT THESE PEOPLE
GAVE YOU AN OPPORTUNITY.
YOU WERE THRILLED AT THE TIME.
DIDN'T YOU FEEL LIKE YOU WERE
KIND OF STABBING THEM IN THE
BACK?
>> I FELT LIKE IT WAS ILLEGAL,
NO MATTER WHAT.
>> Reporter: ELIASTAM READ ABOUT
BOTH CASES AND, LIVE, FROM NEW
YORK, FILED HER OWN SUIT IN
JULY.
>> IT JUST CLICKED.
IT'S NOT RIGHT AND YOU CAN DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT IF YOU WANT
TO.
>> Reporter: AND THEN EARLIER
THIS SUMMER, GLATT WON HIS CASE,
PAVING THE WAY FOR A CLASS
ACTION AGAINST FOX.
THE "CHARLIE ROSE" SHOW SETTLED
WITH BICKERTON AND ABOUT 40
OTHER INTERNS FOR BACK PAY.
IT ALSO ABOLISHED ITS INTERNSHIP
PROGRAM.
"SINCE THEY WEREN'T PERFORMING
WORK," SAID ATTORNEY LYLE
ZUCKERMAN, "THESE LAWSUITS WILL
DO NOTHING BUT DEPRIVE STUDENTS
OF REAL EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES."
ELIASTAM'S CASE IS IN ITS EARLY
STAGES.
BUT THE NEWS IS THAT NBC-
UNIVERSAL HAS BEGUN PAYING ALL
OF ITS INTERNS.
RACHEL BIEN, LAWYER FOR ALL
THREE CLIENTS, SAYS THEIR CASES
PROMISE NOT JUST TO HELP
INTERNS, BUT WORKERS IN GENERAL.
>> IF INTERNS ARE ABLE TO GET
THE MINIMUM WAGE, THAT'S GOING
TO HELP PEOPLE WHO ARE FARTHER
UP THE TOTEM POLE AS WELL.ReporS
OTHERWISE OUT OF REACH.
BUT AT LEAST ONE FORMER UNPAID
INTERN THINKS THE LAWSUITS, AND
THEIR SUCCESS, IS A SETBACK FOR
HIS GENERATION.
>> A LOT OF THESE DISGRUNTLED
INTERNS ARE REALLY JUST TRYING
TO MAKE A SPLASH IN THE MEDIA.
>> Reporter: MICHAEL MORONEY
WORKS AT THE FRANKLIN CENTER, A
CONSERVATIVE GROUP IN
ALEXANDRIA, V.A., WHICH HAS LOTS
OF INTERNS, THOUGH ALL OF THEM
PAID AT LEAST MINIMUM WAGE.
STILL, HE SAYS UNPAID
INTERNSHIPS LIKE ONE HE HAD WITH
A D.C. LOBBYIST ARE WIN-WIN.
>> BECAUSE YOU GET TONS OF NEW
EXPERIENCE AND ON TOP OF THAT,
YOU GET TO MAKE NEW CONNECTIONS
AND REALLY BUILD YOUR RESUME.
UNFORTUNATELY, I THINK WE'RE
MOVING TOWARDS A SYSTEM WHERE
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE A MINIMUM
WAGE JOB VERSUS AN UNPAID
INTERNSHIP, IT'S GOING TO BE A
SYSTEM OF AN UNPAID INTERNSHIP
OR YOUR PARENTS' COUCH.
>> Reporter: THIS, OF COURSE, IS
THE STANDARD ECONOMIC ARGUMENT
AGAINST RAISING THE MINIMUM
WAGE: THOSE AT THE BOTTOM WOULD
NO LONGER HAVE ANY WORK AT ALL.
HOW DOES "BLACK SWAN" ACCOUNTANT
GLATT RESPOND?
>> THIS IS A FORM OF
GENERATIONAL EXPLOITATION THAT I
THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE FAIL TO
APPRECIATE.
THE MILLENNIAL GENERATION NOW IS
ALREADY SUBJECT TO A SOCIAL
EXPERIMENT WE'VE NEVER EVEN COME
CLOSE TO BEFORE, WHICH IS THE
STUDENT LOAN DEBT BURDEN.
AT THE SAME TIME, WE'VE CREATED
THIS OTHER STRUCTURAL PRACTICE
OF GIVING AWAY YOUR LABOR FOR
FREE.
>> Reporter: MOREOVER, SAYS
GLATT, COLLEGES ARE NOT ONLY
EXPENSIVE, THEY'RE
NINTUENTIONALLY ENABLING THE
POST-GRADUATION JOBS CRISIS.
>> THEY'RE BASICALLY DESTROYING
THE JOB MARKET THAT THEIR
STUDENTS ARE GOING TO GRADUATE
INTO.
>> I WAS REQUIRED TO PAY FOR AN
ACADEMIC CREDIT IN ORDER TO DO
THIS INTERNSHIP.
>> Reporter: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
STUDENT CHRISTINA ISNARDI IS
TRYING TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT THE
COLLEGE PROBLEM.
SHE ALSO INTERNED ON A FEATURE
FILM SET, WITHOUT PAY BUT FOR
ONE N.Y.U. CREDIT, WHICH COSTS
ABOUT $1,200.
>> THEY HAD ME SIT IN THE
BASEMENT OF A CHURCH, HALF A
MILE AWAY FROM SET, WATCHING
EQUIPMENT.
ANOTHER DAY, THEY HAD ME PRESS
ELEVATOR BUTTONS.
I WAS DERIVING NO EDUCATIONAL
BENEFIT FROM THIS.
> Re>porter: NONE WHATSOEVER?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
I DID LEARN WHAT THE BOTTOM RUNG
TO THE FILM SET IS, BUT I KNEW
THAT WAS AN ACTUAL POSITION THAT
SHOULD BE FILLED BY AN EMPLOYEE
WHO WAS GETTING PAID.
>> Reporter: WHILE SHE
CONTEMPLATES HER OWN LAWSUIT
AGAINST THE FILM COMPANY, ISNARD
IS LEADING AN EFFORT TO GET
N.Y.U. TO STOP LETTING EMPLOYERS
POST ILLEGAL UNPAID INTERNSHIPS
ON ITS JOB BOARDS.
>> WE SAID, "LOOK, YOU'RE
PROMOTING THIS PRACTICE OF
ALLOWING THESE COMPANIES TO
VIOLATE LABOR LAWS AND USE
STUDENTS FOR FREE.
SO WE WERE HOPING THAT YOU COULD
POSSIBLY TAKE DOWN THESE
INTERNSHIPS AND REPLACE THEM
WITH PAID OPPORTUNITIES."
>> WE WOULD LOVE IF EVERY
INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITY IS
POSSIBLY PAID.
BUT THAT'S NOT REALITY.
>> Reporter: TRUDY STEINFELD IS
DIRECTOR OF N.Y.U.'S CAREER
DEVELOPMENT CENTER.
SHE SAYS THE UNIVERSITY ALREADY
VETS UNPAID INTERNSHIPS FOR
COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL
GUIDELINES, AND STRONGLY URGES
STUDENTS TO IMMEDIATELY REPORT
ANY THAT ARE OUT OF BOUNDS.
BUT SHE ALSO SAYS THAT WHILE
N.Y.U. IS TAKING ISNARDI'S
PETITION SERIOUSLY, THERE ARE
TOO MANY STUDENTS WHO WANT
UNPAID INTERNSHIPS TO DO AWAY
WITH THEM ALTOGETHER.
>> THEY FEEL, PARTICULARLY IF
THEY ARE FIRST OR SECOND YEAR
STUDENTS, THAT IF THEY DON'T
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO SORT OF
LEARN AND GET SOMETHING ON THEIR
RESUME EARLY ON THAT IT MIGHT BE
REALLY COMPETITIVE INTERNSHIPS
AT REALLY LARGE ORGANIATIOZNS OR
VERY HIGHLY TOUTED ORGANIZATIONS
LATER ON IN THEIR ACADEMIC
CAREER.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S TRUE,
SAYS CHRISTINA ISNARDI.
>> THERE'S A HIGH STUDENT DEMAND
FOR THESE INTERNSHIPS,
ESPECIALLY IN CERTAIN FIELDS
SUCH AS JOURNALISM, OR FILM, OR
MUSIC.
>> Reporter: SEAN STANTON WORKS
IN ANOTHER HOT INDUSTRY THESE
DAYS: ORGANIC FARMING.
>> Reporter: YOU HAVE AN INTERN?
>> I HAVE SEVERAL, YEAH.
>> Reporter: DO YOU PAY THEM?
>> I PAY THEM A STIPEND, I FEED
THEM AND I HOUSE THEM.
>> Reporter: YOU COULD GET
UNPAID INTERNS, COULDN'T YOU?
>> YOU MIGHT NOT GET THE SAME
CALIBER, THE SAME QUALITY OF
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: AND YOU MIGHT BE
BREAKING THE WAGE AND HOUR LAWS,
SAYS ATTORNEY BIEN, WHICH HAVE
EVOLVED OVER THE PAST CENTURY TO
PROTECT WORKERS AND DEFINE WORK
IN AMERICA.
>> WHAT THE VALUE OF WORK IS;
THAT THERE IS A VALUE; THAT A
MINIMUM HAS BEEN SET BY THE LAW
AND UNDERSTANDING HOW IMPORTANT
IT IS TO MAINTAIN THAT, IN ORDER
FOR OUR ECONOMY TO WORK.
>> Reporter: TO WORK DOWN ON THE
ORGANIC FARM OR EVEN PERHAPS IN
UPTOWN NEW YORK.
>> Woodruff: NOW, ANOTHER IN OUR
ONGOING SERIES WHERE WE TRY TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
RAY SUAREZ IS IN CHARGE.
>> Suarez: TONIGHT, A LOOK AT
MEDICARE AND WHAT PRIVATE SECTOR
RETIREES MIGHT FACE UNDER THE
LAW.
FOR THAT, WE WELCOME BACK MARY
AGNES CAREY OF KAISER HEALTH
NEWS.
KAISER HEALTH NEWS IS AN
EDITORIALLY INDEPENDENT NEWS
SERVICE FOCUSING ON HEALTH
POLICY.
A LOT OF PEOPLE STILL HAVE VERY
BASIC QUESTIONS AS TO WHAT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IS GOING TO
MEAN FOR THEM.
HOW IS IT GOING TO CHANGE THE
WAY THEY ACQUIRE HEALTH CARE?
I HEADED OUT INTO THE STREETS OF
WASHINGTON, FOUND FREEDOM ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY STILL HAD
QUESTIONS, LIKE THIS WOMAN FROM
CALIFORNIA.
>> MY NAME IS JANET NEIL SON
FROM CALIFORNIA, LIVE OUTSIDE OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
AS A SENIOR CITIZEN I'M
CONCERNED HOW THE MEDICARE RATES
ARE GOING TO BE AFFECTED.
RIGHT NOW I HAVE MEDICARE WITH
KEISER AS A SUPPLEMENT AND I'VE
BEEN SATISFIED BUT I'M CONCERNED
AS TO MEDICARE AND MY INSURANCE
COMPANY HOW RATES WILL BE
AFFECTED AND HOW OUR CARE WILL
BE AFFECTED AS WELL.
>> Suarez: LET ME ADD AGAIN HER
INSURER, KAISER PERMANENTE, IS
NOT RELATED TO KAISER HEALTH
NEWS.
THERE MUST BE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THIS BOAT WHO ARE MEDICARE
RECIPIENTS AND ALSO ACQUIRE SOME
PRIVATE INSURANCE.
>> THEY DO AND FIRST I WANT TO
ADD TO HER CONCERN ABOUT
BENEFITS.
THERE WILL BE NO BENEFIT CUTS IN
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT FOR
MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES.
THERE'S ACTUALLY ADDITIONAL
BENEFITS.
FOR SCREENINGS WITHOUT CO-PAYS
OR DEDUCTIBLES, ADDITIONAL HELP
FOR YOUR MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION
DRUG COSTS BUT I THINK WHAT
SHE'S TALKING ABOUT IS SOME
CONCERN ABOUT PAYMENT REDUCTIONS
TO MEDICARE PROVIDERS THE LAW
DOES CUT PAYMENTS TO HOSPITALS
AND HOME HEALTH AGENCIES AND
OTHER PROVIDERS OVER THE NEXT
DECADE.
BUT THE THOUGHT IS THOSE SECTORS
CAN SUSTAIN THE PAYMENTS AND
SUSTAIN THE MEDICARE PROGRAM.
BUT THERE'S SOME CONCERN IF THE
MEDICARE CUTS ARE TOO DEEP OVER
TIME WOULD THESE PROVIDERS
DECIDE TO LEAVE THE PROGRAM?
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE OF THAT YET
BUT THAT HAD BEEN SOME CONCERN.
>> Suarez: WILL HER MEDIGAP
COSTS GO UP BECAUSE IT'S PRIVATE
INSURANCE LIKE THAT THAT SO MANY
OTHER PEOPLE BUY?
>> THERE'S NO CHANGES TO MEDIGAP
AS PART OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT.
THOSE ARE PRIVATE INSURERS AS
YOU NOTE SO IT'S HARD TO KNOW
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN TO MEDIGAP.
>> Suarez: WE HAVE QUESTIONS
THAT HAVE BEEN COMING IN OVER
THE INTERNET AND VIA E-MAIL.
"WILL THERE BE AGE LIMITS ON
SERVICES TO PATIENTS UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT?
I'VE HEARD THE FOR PEOPLE OVER
65 THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO GET A
HIP REPLACEMENT OR CANCER
TREATMENT.
IS THIS TRUE?"
>> IT'S NOT TRUE.
THERE'S NO AGE RESTRICTIONS ON
ANYONE TO GET A MEDICAL SERVICE.
PERHAPS THIS PERSON IS A LITTLE
CONCERNED ABOUT A NEW ADVISORY
BOARD THAT'S CREATED AS PART OF
THE HEALTH THROUGH THAT IF
MEDICARE SPENDING BE ON A
CERTAIN LEVEL THIS BOARD WOULD
PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS TO
CONGRESS ON HOW TO CONTROL
SPENDING.
IF CONGRESS DIDN'T ADOPT THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS THEY WOULD HAVE
TO COME UP WITH RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THEIR OWN BUT IT'S IMPORTANT
TO KNOW SEVERAL THINGS HERE.
NO ONE HAS BEEN NOMINATED TO
THIS PANEL.
THEY FACE SENATE CONFIRMATION--
WHICH WILL BE PRETTY DIFFICULT
IN THIS ENVIRONMENT-- AND
MEDICARE ISN'T EXPECTED TO HIT
THESE TARGETS UNTIL 2022 OR
BEYOND SO IT'S NOT EVEN A FACTOR
YET IN ANY PART OF THE MEDICARE
DISCUSSION.
>> Suarez: THERE PROBLEMS FOR
PEOPLE MAKING THE TRANSITION
FROM THE HEALTH CARE THEY'VE HAD
FOR A LONG TIME INTO MEDICARE?
IS THERE -- OR DO THE TWO MESH
UP EASILY WHEN YOU MOVE FROM ONE
THE TO THE OTHER?
>> MANY PEOPLE IN THEIR WORKING
LIVES ARE PART OF MANAGED CARE.
THEY'RE ALREADY RECEIVING --
PERHAPS THEY HAVE A HEALTH
MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION OR A
PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATION.
THEY MAY BE COMFORTABLE GOING
INTO MEDICARE ADVANTAGE WHICH
ARE THE PRIVATE PLANS IN
MEDICARE THAT PROVIDE CARE TO
BENEFICIARIES OR THEY MAY CHOOSE
TO BE IN MEDICARE'S TRADITION
ALPHIE-FOR-SERVICE PROGRAM.
>> Suarez: OUR NEXT PERSON
WRITES:
>> I HAVE A FEW RECOMMENDATIONS
HERE.
ONE THOUGHT IS COULD HER HUSBAND
STAY ON HER HEALTH INSURANCE
PLAN THROUGH A PROGRAM CALLED
COBRA?
IT'S FAIRLY EXPENSIVE AND
INSTEAD OF PAYING A PART OF THE
PREMIUM YOU PAY THE FULL RATE
AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
THAT'S ONE OPTION.
THEY MIGHT ALSO BE ABLE TO GET
COVERAGE FOR HER HUSBAND ON THE
HEALTH INSURANCE EXCHANGES,
THESE ONLINE MARKETPLACES
CREATED IN THE HEALTH LAW.
AND THEY MIGHT QUALIFY FOR A
SUBSIDY BASED ON THEIR INCOME.
SO THEY SHOULD LOOK INTO THE
EXCHANGES FOR COVERAGE FOR HIM.
>> WELL, THIS IS A REALLY
INTERESTING QUESTION THAT'S
CAUSED A LOT OF CONFUSION.
WHAT'S HAPPENING FOR THE I.B.M.
RETIREES IS THE MEDICARE
ELIGIBLE RETIREES ARE BEING
PLACED IN A PRIVATE EXCHANGE.
THIS HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
EXCHANGES CREATED IN THE HEALTH
LAW.
I.B.M. AND OTHER EMPLOYERS HAVE
DECIDED TO GIVE THEIR RETIREES A
SET AMOUNT OF MONEY, LET THEM GO
INTO AN EXCHANGE THAT SOMETIMES
OFFERS MORE COVERAGE CHOICES FOR
THEIR RETIREES AND LET THEM PICK
THAT.
AGAIN, I WANT TO STRESS, IT HAS
NOTHING TO DO WITH THE EXCHANGES
IN THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
>> Suarez: SO IN EFFECT THEY
HAVEN'T BEEN THROWN INTO THE
MARKETPLACE THAT THE STATE OF
NEW YORK WILL BE PUTTING INTO?
>> NO, THEY HAVE NOT BEEN.
THESE ARE SEPARATE EXCHANGES FOR
THIS PARTICULAR MEDICARE
ELIGIBILITY -- MEDICARE ELIGIBLE
POPULATION.
>> Suarez: COBRA.
IS ANYTHING GOING TO CHANGE
ABOUT COBRA NOW THAT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IS COMING
FULLY INTO FORCE?
>> YOU MAY HAVE FEWER PEOPLE
SIGN UP FOR IT BECAUSE IT IS SO
EXPENSIVE FOR THE BENEFICIARY
AND THEY MIGHT GET A BETTER DEAL
ON THE HEALTH INSURANCE
EXCHANGE.
>> Suarez: MARY AGNES CAREY OF
KAISER HEALTH NEWS.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> SURE.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: NEXT, A STORY OF TWO
MURDERS, A CONVICTION, AN
EXECUTION AND THEN AN OUTPOURING
OF SYMPATHY AND CALLS FOR SOCIAL
JUSTICE ACROSS SOCIAL MEDIA IN
CHINA.
HARI SREENIVASAN TELLS THE TALE.
>> Reporter: XIA JUNFENG WAS AN
UNKNOWN AND UNLICENSED FOOD
VENDOR IN NORTHEASTERN CHINA IN
2009.
BUT FOLLOWING HIS EXECUTION
YESTERDAY BY THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT, IN THE LAST 24
HOURS, HIS NAME BECAME ONE OF
THE MOST SEARCHED FOR TERMS
ACROSS CHINESE SOCIAL MEDIA.
THAT'S BECAUSE ON HER MICRO-
BLOGGING WEIBO ACCOUNT, HIS
WIFE, ZHANG JING, CHRONICLED HER
EMOTIONS AT SEEING HER HUSBAND
JUST BEFORE HE DIED.
"I'M GOING TO SEE XIA JUNGFENG
XIA MET HIS WIFE AND MOTHER FOR
A HALF-HOUR THROUGH A CHAIN-LINK
FENCE BEFORE HIS EXECUTION.
WHEN HE BEGGED HIS JAILORS IF HE
COULD TAKE A FAMILY PHOTO TO
LEAVE BEHIND AS A MEMORY FOR HIS
SON, THE REQUEST WAS DENIED.
A PHOTO POSTED BY HIS WIFE'S
FAMILY SHOWED A DISTRAUGHT
MOTHER.
HIS WIFE TYPED:
THIS MESSAGE, LIKE SO MANY IN
THE CAMPAIGN, WAS SHARED TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF TIMES.
THE TROUBLES BEGAN IN 2009, WHEN
XIA AND HIS WIFE WERE SELLING
KABOBS ON THE STREET.
THEY SAY A GANG OF CHENGGUANG--
GOVERNMENT SANCTIONED URBAN
ENFORCERS-- BEGAN BEATING XIA
FOR NOT HAVING A LICENSE.
WITNESSES SAY THEY TOOK XIA BACK
TO THEIR OFFICES, WHERE THEY
CONTINUED BEATING HIM.
THAT'S WHERE XIA TOOK OUT HIS
SAUSAGE KNIFE AND STABBED THREE
MEN.
TWO OF THEM DIED.
XIA WAS CONVICTED OF MURDER AND
HIS APPEALS WERE DENIED.
WITNESSES WERE READY TO TESTIFY
THAT THESE MURDERS WERE AN ACT
OF SELF DEFENSE BUT WERE NOT
ALLOWED TO TAKE THE STAND.
THERE HAVE BEEN NUMEROUS
DOCUMENTED CASES OF EXCESSIVE
VIOLENCE AND DEATH AT THE HANDS
OF THE CHENGGUANG.
THE SUPREME COURT IN CHINA,
WHICH MUST APPROVE DEATH
SENTENCES, STOOD BY THE RULING
YESTERDAY.
MORE THAN TWO DOZEN HUMAN RIGHTS
LAWYERS ISSUED A JOINT STATEMENT
OBJECTING TO THE COURT HANDING
OUT THE MOST SEVERE PUNISHMENT,
IN A CASE, THEY SAY, LEFT MUCH
TO DOUBT.
>> THIS IS NOT SENTIMENT ON
BEHALF OF A POP IDOL OR A WELL
KNOWN BUSINESS PERSON WHO IS THE
SYMBOL OF THE NEW CHINA OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IT'S ON BEHALF OF A STREET
VENDOR, NOT SOMEONE WHO GARNERS
A LOT OF RESPECT IN GENERAL IN
CHINESE SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: KEN LIEBERTHAL IS A
CHINA WATCHER AT THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION.
>> I THINK IT SIMPLY HIGHLIGHTS
DEMAND FROM BELOW FOR MORE
ACCOUNTABLE, AND A MORE FAIR
POLITICAL SYSTEM.
>> Reporter: LAST YEAR GU
KAILIAI, THE WIFE OF A ONCE
POWERFUL CHINESE POLITICIAN,
CONFESSED TO THE PREMEDITATED
MURDER OF A BRITISH BUSINESSMAN,
YET SHE WILL ONLY SERVE LIFE IN
PRISON.
THAT CASE IS BEING COMPARED TO
XIA'S AS AN EXAMPLE OF UNEQUAL
TREATMENT BEFORE THE LAW FOR THE
WEALTHY AND WELL-CONNECTED.
>> THIS HAS BECOME SO BIG IN
PART BECAUSE IT FITS SO
PERFECTLY INTO A LARGER
NARRATIVE.
THE LARGER NARRATIVE IS PEOPLE
INCREASINGLY BECOMING VERY, VERY
UNHAPPY WITH THE WAY THE SYSTEM
IS FUNCTIONING.
FEELING IT IS GROSSLY UNFAIR.
AND FEELING THAT THEY DESERVE
BETTER.
>> Reporter: ON SOCIAL MEDIA
CHINESE CITIZENS HAVE FELT
EMBOLDENED TO CRITICIZE WHAT
THEY SEE AS A DOUBLE STANDARD
FOR THE UNDERCLASS.
ALSO POPULAR ACROSS THE CHINESE
INTERNET WERE IMAGES OF
PAINTINGS SAID TO BE CREATED BY
XIA JUNFENG'S 13-YEAR-OLD SON,
THIS ONE OF THE BOY CLIMBING ON
HIS FATHER'S BACK.
A COMPILATION OF THESE PAINTINGS
MADE INTO A BOOK TO HELP RAISE
FUNDS FOR THE FAMILY SOLD OUT
ITS 5,000 COPIES.
TODAY XIA JUNFENG'S WIDOW, ZHANG
JING, COLLECTED HIS ASHES AND
PREPARED FOR A FAMILY FAREWELL.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
FAMED MUSICIAN GRAHAM NASH
HAS JUST COME OUT WITH A NEW
MEMOIR OF HIS LIFE IN ROCK 'N
ROLL, TITLED "WILD TALES."
IN THE MID-1960s, NASH HAD
NUMEROUS NUMBER ONE POP HITS
WITH THE BRITISH BAND THE
HOLLIES.
HE LATER BECAME PART OF THE
SUPERGROUP-- CROSBY, STILLS,
NASH AND YOUNG.
JEFFREY BROWN TALKED WITH HIM
RECENTLY WHILE ON A NEW SOLO
TOUR AT THE BIRCHMERE IN
ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT OF THEIR
CONVERSATION, WHERE NASH TALKED
ABOUT SOME OF HIS FAMOUS MUSICAL
AND LIFE PARTNERS.
>> Brown: LET ME SAY NAMES AT
YOU AND GIVE ME YOUR IMPSI
STEPHEN STILLS.
>> CERTAINLY ONE OF THE FINEST
GUITAR PLAYERS IN THE WORLD.
CERTAINLY --TOR A CERTAIN -- I
THINK HE'S A VERY UNDERRATED
GUITAR PLAYER.
YOU KNOW, I READ THE TOP 50
GUITAR PLAYERS IN THIS "ROLLING
STONE" AND HE'S SOMEWHERE AROUND
THE BOTTOM AND THAT'S JUST NOT
RIGHT.
HE'S AN INCREDIBLE GUITAR PLAYER
>> Brown: DAVID CROSBY.
>> CROSBY IS ONE OF THE MOST
UNIQUE MUSICIANS I KNOW.
WHEN I WAS DOING HIS BOX SET--
AND I DID STEPHEN'S AND I DID
MINE, OF COURSE-- I BEGAN TO
REALIZE HOW UNIQUE CROSBY WAS.
HIS SENSE OF JAZZ-- WHICH IS ONE
OF HIS FIRST LOVES-- IS --
PERVADES ALL HIS MUSIC.
AND IS VERY DIFFERENT THAN
GRAHAM NASH MUSIC.
SOMEHOW IT SHOULDN'T WORKS BUT
IT REALLY WORKS LIKE A BAN DID.
>> Brown: NEIL YOUNG.
>> NEIL YOUNG IS PROBABLY ONE OF
THE STRANGEST OF MY FRIENDS.
HE'S ADAMANT ABOUT FOLLOWING HIS
HEART.
HI HE'S SERIOUS AS A HEART
ATTACK ABOUT HIS MUSIC.
HE BRINGS A DARKER EDGE.
I DON'T MEAN DARKENER A NEGATIVE
SENSE, BUT MORE OF AN INTENSITY
TO OUR MUSIC.
THE MUSIC OF CROSBY STILLS AND
NASH BORN IN THE SUMMER OF LOVE
WAS LIGHTER, SUNNIER.
NEIL'S -- THE SUN TURNS DOWN A
LITTLE WHEN NEIL COMES INTO THE
BAND.
>> Brown: AND JONI MITCHELL.
>> JONI IS IN MY OPINION A
GENIUS.
SHE IS AN OUTSTANDING WOMAN
OBVIOUSLY VERY BEAUTIFUL BUT
INCREDIBLY TALENTED WHEN IT
COMES TO SONG WRITING.
SHE'S REALLY PAINTING WITH
WORDS.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT GRAHAM
NASH.
WHAT DID YOU BRING TO ALL OF
THIS?
>> WOW.
WHAT DID GRAHAM NASH BRING TO
THIS MADNESS?
MAYBE A LITTLE STABILITY.
I'D BEEN THROUGH IT ALL WITH THE
HOLLIES.
I'D BEEN THROUGH THE SCREAMING
GIRLS AND THE CROWDS WHERE YOU
COULDN'T HEAR YOURSELF PLAY
BECAUSE OF THE NOISE THEY WERE
MAKING.
I'D BEEN THROUGH HAVING MY
CLOTHES TORN.
I'D BEEN THROUGH ALL THAT SO IT
WAS NO BIG DEAL TO ME.
I WENT EVEN NERVOUS AT
WOODSTOCK.
IT WAS STEPHEN THAT SAID HE WAS
SCARED
(LAUGHTER)
>> Brown: BUT YOU TALK ABOUT THE
GIRLS AND PEOPLE RIPPING YOUR
CLOTHES.
THERE'S A LOT OF SEX, DRUGS, AND
ROCK 'N' ROLL IN THIS.
>> BUT IT'S NOT ONLY THAT.
IT'S ABOUT LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP
AND LOYALTY AND BEING FOR YOUR
FRIENDS WHEN THEY'RE OBVIOUSLY
HURTING.
THAT WAS ONE OF MY MAIN CONCERNS
WITH THIS BOOK WAS HOW DAVID
CROSBY WOULD REACT.
I WAS BRUTALLY HONEST ABOUT IT.
>> Brown: CHRONICLING ALL HIS
PROBLEMS.
>> YES, WHAT WAS GOING ON WITH
HIM AND HOW IT AFFECTED ME
PERSONALLY.
SO WHEN I CALLED DAVID AND
TALKED TO HIM HE SAID "I DID ALL
THAT, I DID PUT YOU GUYS THROUGH
ALL THAT.
I DID SPIRAL DOWN.
EVERY WORD IS TRUE.
DON'T CHANGE A WORD."
AND IT GAVE ME A GREAT SENSE OF
RELIEF.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN WATCH JEFF'S
FULL CONVERSATION WITH GRAHAM
NASH ON THE ART BEAT PAGE ON OUR
WEBSITE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE SENATE AIMED AT A FINAL BILL
VOTING THE GOVERNMENT BUT HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER WARNED HIS
CHAMBER MAY REJECT IT UNLESS IT
STRIPS FUNDING FROM OBAMACARE.
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA AGREED ON A
DRAFT U.N. RESOLUTION FOR
DISPOSING OF SYRIAN CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
AND NUCLEAR TALKS WITH IRAN
RESUMED.
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY
REPORTED A WELCOME CHANGE OF
TONE, BUT HE SAID, "THERE IS A
LOT OF WORK TO BE DONE."
AND THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, MARGARET WARNER WRAPS
UP THE WEEK AT THE U.N. GENERAL
ASSEMBLY.
PLUS, JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS ON
THE RESURGENCE OF THE NATION'S
FIRST AFRICAN AMERICAN PUBLIC
HIGH SCHOOL.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND RAMESH PONNURU.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.